w-12237083-roundRobin-duke (#2438)
mulesoft/docs-mule-runtime-3: modules/ROOT/pages/round-robin.adoc

endif::[]
:keywords: routers, flows, processor chain, async, aggregator, resequencer

> Round Robin is a Mule component that processes its input within only _one_ of its routes each time the flow executes the router. Each route within Round Robin is a scope that can contain one or more processors. Starting with the first route, Round Robin initiates execution of processors within the route over the input Mule event. The router keeps track of the previously selected route and never selects the same route consecutively. For example, the first time Round Robin executes, it selects the first route. The next time, it selects the second route. If the previously selected route is the last route, Round Robin executes the first route.

Author: ```suggestion
Round Robin is a Mule component that contains two or more routes and processes its input within only _one_ of its routes each time the flow executes the router. Each route within Round Robin is a scope that can contain one or more processors. Starting with the first route, Round Robin initiates execution of processors within the route over the input Mule event. The router keeps track of the previously selected route and never selects the same route consecutively. For example, the first time Round Robin executes, it selects the first route. The next time, it selects the second route. If the previously selected route is the last route, Round Robin executes the first route.
```

> The Round Robin router is a component that processes its input within only _one_ of its routes each time the flow executes the router. Each route within Round Robin is a scope that can contain one or more processors. Starting with the first route, Round Robin initiates execution of processors within the route over the input Mule event. The router keeps track of the previously selected route and never selects the same route consecutively. For example, the first time Round Robin executes, it selects the first route. The next time, it selects the second route. If the previously selected route is the last route, Round Robin executes the first route.

Author: ```suggestion
The Round Robin router is a Mule component that processes its input within only _one_ of its routes each time the flow executes the router. Each route within Round Robin is a scope that can contain one or more processors. Starting with the first route, Round Robin initiates execution of processors within the route over the input Mule event. The router keeps track of the previously selected route and never selects the same route consecutively. For example, the first time Round Robin executes, it selects the first route. The next time, it selects the second route. If the previously selected route is the last route, Round Robin executes the first route.
```

> Round Robin is a Mule component that contains two or more routes and executes only only _one_ of the routes each time the flow executes Round Robin. Each route within Round Robin is a scope that can contain one or more processors. Starting with the first route, Round Robin initiates execution of processors within the route over a Mule event. The router keeps track of the previously selected route and never selects the same route consecutively. For example, the first time Round Robin executes, it selects the first route. The next time, it selects the second route. If the previously selected route is the last route, Round Robin executes the first route.

Author: ```suggestion
Round Robin is a Mule component that contains two or more routes and executes only only _one_ of the routes each time the flow executes Round Robin. Each route within Round Robin is a scope that can contain one or more processors. Starting with the first route, Round Robin initiates execution of processors within the route over a Mule event. Round Robin keeps track of the previously selected route and never selects the same route consecutively. For example, the first time Round Robin executes, the component selects the first route. The next time, it selects the second route. If the previously selected route is the last route, Round Robin executes the first route.
```

> Round Robin is a Mule component that contains two or more routes and executes only only _one_ of the routes each time the flow executes Round Robin. Each route within Round Robin is a scope that can contain one or more processors. Starting with the first route, Round Robin initiates execution of processors within the route over the input Mule event. The router keeps track of the previously selected route and never selects the same route consecutively. For example, the first time Round Robin executes, it selects the first route. The next time, it selects the second route. If the previously selected route is the last route, Round Robin executes the first route.

Author: ```suggestion
Round Robin is a Mule component that contains two or more routes and executes only only _one_ of the routes each time the flow executes Round Robin. Each route within Round Robin is a scope that can contain one or more processors. Starting with the first route, Round Robin initiates execution of processors within the route over a Mule event. The router keeps track of the previously selected route and never selects the same route consecutively. For example, the first time Round Robin executes, it selects the first route. The next time, it selects the second route. If the previously selected route is the last route, Round Robin executes the first route.
```

> Round Robin is a Mule component that contains two or more routes and executes only only _one_ of the routes each time the flow executes Round Robin. Each route within Round Robin is a scope that can contain one or more processors. Starting with the first route, Round Robin initiates execution of processors within the route over a Mule event. Round Robin keeps track of the previously selected route and never selects the same route consecutively. For example, the first time Round Robin executes, the component selects the first route. The next time, it selects the second route. If the previously selected route is the last route, Round Robin executes the first route.

Author: ```suggestion
Round Robin is a Mule component that contains two or more processing routes and executes only only _one_ of the routes each time the flow executes the component. Each route within Round Robin is a scope that can contain one or more processors. Starting with the first route, Round Robin initiates execution of processors within the route over a Mule event and sends the results to the next processor in the flow. Round Robin keeps track of the previously selected route and never selects the same route consecutively. For example, the first time Round Robin executes, the component selects the first route. The next time, it selects the second route. If the previously selected route is the last route, Round Robin executes the first route.
```

> Round Robin is a Mule component that contains two or more routes and processes its input within only _one_ of its routes each time the flow executes the router. Each route within Round Robin is a scope that can contain one or more processors. Starting with the first route, Round Robin initiates execution of processors within the route over the input Mule event. The router keeps track of the previously selected route and never selects the same route consecutively. For example, the first time Round Robin executes, it selects the first route. The next time, it selects the second route. If the previously selected route is the last route, Round Robin executes the first route.

Author: ```suggestion
Round Robin is a Mule component that contains two or more routes and processes its input within only _one_ of its routes each time the flow executes Round Robin. Each route within Round Robin is a scope that can contain one or more processors. Starting with the first route, Round Robin initiates execution of processors within the route over the input Mule event. The router keeps track of the previously selected route and never selects the same route consecutively. For example, the first time Round Robin executes, it selects the first route. The next time, it selects the second route. If the previously selected route is the last route, Round Robin executes the first route.
```

> Round Robin is a Mule component that contains two or more routes and processes its input within only _one_ of its routes each time the flow executes Round Robin. Each route within Round Robin is a scope that can contain one or more processors. Starting with the first route, Round Robin initiates execution of processors within the route over the input Mule event. The router keeps track of the previously selected route and never selects the same route consecutively. For example, the first time Round Robin executes, it selects the first route. The next time, it selects the second route. If the previously selected route is the last route, Round Robin executes the first route.

Author: ```suggestion
Round Robin is a Mule component that contains two or more routes and executes only only _one_ of the routes each time the flow executes Round Robin. Each route within Round Robin is a scope that can contain one or more processors. Starting with the first route, Round Robin initiates execution of processors within the route over the input Mule event. The router keeps track of the previously selected route and never selects the same route consecutively. For example, the first time Round Robin executes, it selects the first route. The next time, it selects the second route. If the previously selected route is the last route, Round Robin executes the first route.
```

> The payload, variables, and attributes from the Mule event that reaches Round Robin are available for processing within one of it routes. Any changes to the Mule event within a route propagate to the processor after Round Robin. If a route does not change some part of the Mule event, the unchanged value is propagates to that processor.

Author: ```suggestion
The payload, variables, and attributes from the Mule event that reaches Round Robin are available for processing within one of it routes. Any changes to the Mule event within a route propagate to the processor after Round Robin. If a route does not change some part of the Mule event, the unchanged value propagates to that processor.
```

> The payload, variables, and attributes from the Mule event that reaches Round Robin are available for processing within one of it routes. Any changes to the Mule event within a route propagate to the processor after Round Robin. If a route does not change some part of the Mule event, the unchanged value propagates to that processor.

Author: ```suggestion
The payload, variables, and attributes from the Mule event that reaches Round Robin are available for processing within one route. Any changes to the Mule event within a route propagate to the processor after Round Robin. If a route does not change some part of the Mule event, the unchanged value propagates to that processor.
```

> The payload, variables, and attributes from the Mule event that reaches Round Robin are available for processing within one route. Any changes to the Mule event within a route propagate to the processor after Round Robin. If a route does not change some part of the Mule event, the unchanged value propagates to that processor.

Author: ```suggestion
The payload, variables, and attributes from the Mule event that reaches Round Robin are accessible for processing within the route. Any changes to the Mule event within a route propagate to the processor after Round Robin. If a route does not change some part of the Mule event, the unchanged value propagates to that processor.
```

  </scheduler>
  <set-payload value="#[[1,2,3,4]]" doc:name="Set Payload" /> <!-- 2 -->
  <logger level="INFO" doc:name="Logger" 
          category="PAYLOAD BEFORE ROUND ROBIN" 
  	message="#[payload]"/>
  <round-robin doc:name="Round Robin" >
    <route > <!-- 3 -->
      <set-payload value="#[payload - 4]" doc:name="Set Payload" /> 
      <logger level="INFO" doc:name="Logger" 
              message="#[%dw 2.0&#10;output application/json&#10;---&#10;{ 'r1' : payload}]" 
	      category="ROUTE 1 PAYLOAD"/>
    </route>
    <route > <!-- 4 -->
      <set-payload value="#[payload + 5]" doc:name="Set Payload" />
        <logger level="INFO" doc:name="Logger" 
                message="#[%dw 2.0&#10;output application/json&#10;---&#10;{'r2' : payload}]" 
                category="ROUTE 2 PAYLOAD"/>
    </route>
  </round-robin>
  <logger level="INFO" doc:name="Logger" 
           message="#[payload]" 
	   category="PAYLOAD OUTSIDE ROUND ROBIN"/> <!-- 5 -->
</flow>
----

. Scheduler (`<scheduler/>`) executes the flow every 10 seconds.
. Set Payload (`<set-payload/>`) provides the array `[1,2,3,4]`.
. The Logger component _before_ Round Robin prints the initial payload, `[1,2,3,4]`.

> . In the _first_ route (`<route/>`) of Round Robin, a Set Payload component uses `payload - 4` to remove the last element of the initial payload, and the Logger in that route prints the resulting payload, `{ "r1": [1,2,3] }`.

Author: ```suggestion
. In the _first_ route (`<route/>`) of Round Robin, a Set Payload component uses `payload - 4` to remove the last element of the initial payload, and the Logger in that route prints the resulting payload as the value of key `"r1"`, `{ "r1": [1,2,3] }`.
```

> . In the _first_ route (`<route/>`) of Round Robin, a Set Payload component uses `payload - 4` to remove the last element of the initial payload, and the Logger in that route prints the resulting payload as the value of key `"r1"`, `{ "r1": [1,2,3] }`.

Author: ```suggestion
. In the _first_ route (`<route/>`) of Round Robin, a Set Payload component uses the DataWeave expression `payload - 4` to remove the last element of the initial payload, and the Logger in that route prints the resulting payload as the value of key `"r1"`, `{ "r1": [1,2,3] }`.
```

> . In the _second_ route (`<route/>`) of Round Robin, a Set Payload component uses `payload + 5` to append a new element to the initial payload, and the Logger in that route prints the resulting payload, `{ "r2": [1,2,3,4,5] }`.

Author: ```suggestion
. In the _second_ route (`<route/>`) of Round Robin, a Set Payload component uses `payload + 5` to append a new element to the initial payload, and the Logger in that route prints the resulting payload as the value of key `"r2"`, `{ "r2": [1,2,3,4,5] }`.
```

> . In the _second_ route (`<route/>`) of Round Robin, a Set Payload component uses `payload + 5` to append a new element to the initial payload, and the Logger in that route prints the resulting payload as the value of key `"r2"`, `{ "r2": [1,2,3,4,5] }`.

Author: ```suggestion
. In the _second_ route (`<route/>`) of Round Robin, a Set Payload component uses the DataWeave expression `payload + 5` to append a new element to the initial payload, and the Logger in that route prints the resulting payload as the value of key `"r2"`, `{ "r2": [1,2,3,4,5] }`.
```

[console,logs]
----
...

INFO  2022-12-19 10:02:30,233 ...event: 4df56260-7fc7-11ed-957f-147ddaaf4f97] 
      PAYLOAD BEFORE ROUND ROBIN: [1, 2, 3, 4]
INFO  2022-12-19 10:02:30,290 ...event: 4df56260-7fc7-11ed-957f-147ddaaf4f97] 
      ROUTE 1 PAYLOAD: { "r1": [1,2,3] }
INFO  2022-12-19 10:02:30,291 ...event: 4df56260-7fc7-11ed-957f-147ddaaf4f97] 
      PAYLOAD OUTSIDE ROUND ROBIN: [1, 2, 3]

INFO  2022-12-19 10:02:40,154 ...event: 53eb1c50-7fc7-11ed-957f-147ddaaf4f97] 
      PAYLOAD BEFORE ROUND ROBIN: [1, 2, 3, 4]
INFO  2022-12-19 10:02:40,167 ...event: 53eb1c50-7fc7-11ed-957f-147ddaaf4f97] 
      ROUTE 2 PAYLOAD: { "r2": [1, 2, 3, 4, 5] }
INFO  2022-12-19 10:02:40,168 ...event: 53eb1c50-7fc7-11ed-957f-147ddaaf4f97] 
      PAYLOAD OUTSIDE ROUND ROBIN: [1, 2, 3, 4, 5]

INFO  2022-12-19 10:02:50,151 ...event: 59e12460-7fc7-11ed-957f-147ddaaf4f97] 
      PAYLOAD BEFORE ROUND ROBIN: [1, 2, 3, 4]
INFO  2022-12-19 10:02:50,154 ...event: 59e12460-7fc7-11ed-957f-147ddaaf4f97] 
      ROUTE 1 PAYLOAD: { "r1": [1, 2, 3] }
INFO  2022-12-19 10:02:50,154 ...event: 59e12460-7fc7-11ed-957f-147ddaaf4f97] 
      PAYLOAD OUTSIDE ROUND ROBIN: [1, 2, 3]

...
----

== Reference

> Round Robin provides one setting.

Author: ```suggestion
Round Robin supports an attribute to the `<round-robin />` element: `tracking:enable-default-events`.
```

> Round Robin supports an attribute to the `<round-robin />` element: `tracking:enable-default-events`.

Author: ```suggestion
Round Robin provides a configurable attribute to the `<round-robin />` element.
```

endif::[]
:keywords: routers, flows, processor chain, async, aggregator, resequencer

> Round Robin is a Mule component that contains two or more processing routes and executes only only _one_ of the routes each time the flow executes the component. Each route within Round Robin is a scope that can contain one or more processors. Starting with the first route, Round Robin initiates execution of processors within the route over a Mule event and sends the results to the next processor in the flow. Round Robin keeps track of the previously selected route and never selects the same route consecutively. For example, the first time Round Robin executes, the component selects the first route. The next time, it selects the second route. If the previously selected route is the last route, Round Robin executes the first route.

Author: ```suggestion
Round Robin is a Mule component that contains two or more processing routes and executes only _one_ of the routes each time the flow executes the component. Each route within Round Robin is a scope that can contain one or more processors. Starting with the first route, Round Robin initiates execution of processors within the route over a Mule event and sends the results to the next processor in the flow. Round Robin keeps track of the previously selected route and never selects the same route consecutively. For example, the first time Round Robin executes, the component selects the first route. The next time, it selects the second route. If the previously selected route is the last route, Round Robin executes the first route.
```

> The payload, variables, and attributes from the Mule event that reaches Round Robin are accessible for processing within the route. Any changes to the Mule event within a route propagate to the processor after Round Robin. If a route does not change some part of the Mule event, the unchanged value propagates to that processor.

Author: ```suggestion
The payload, variables, and attributes from the Mule event that reaches Round Robin are accessible for processing within the route. Any changes to the Mule event within a route propagate to the processor after Round Robin. 
```
